# Group Project for CSE151A

The exploratory data analysis conducted on the mushroom datasets provides insight into the distinguishing and classifying a specific mushroom's habitat. The primary dataset, with 173 observations across 23 features, including cap dimensions, colors, shape, surface, and more, reveals details about biodiversity. It does contain a number of null values which are concentrated in about five features. The secondary dataset expands the scope with thousands of observations for stem dimensions, ring type, and cap shape, alongside other features, and is devoid of null data. We performed introductory visual and statistical analysis, and saw a few patterns emerge, such as the distribution of cap diameters and color variations. These datasets' have the potential to reveal discriminative features critical for distinguishing digestibility. 

After we removed any Nan values, we alo conducted basic data cleaning such as one-hot encoding of our categorical features and output class. In addition to that, we used Chi-Squared tests and the SelectKBest library to determine the most significant features in our dataset. In addition to that, we used Random Forests to determine the importance of various features, and from this we were able to determine the most significant features to impact the performance of the model, and to reduce the overall dimensionality of the model. We created multiple distibutions to determine how the classses are associated with the various features, such as seeing the distribution of the cap-shape values by the habitat of the various mushrooms. We also created a correlatioon matrix between the various features, to determine which of them are the most correlated and can affect each other. Through careful data preprocessing—including cleaning, normalizing, and feature extraction—we aim to move closer to accurately distinguishing between edible and poisonous mushrooms. 
